---
layout:post
title: SASS
---

##SASS

When it comes to the redundancies and overall cumbersome nature of css I can see why it led developers to come up with a 
pre processing system like SASS, LESS, or Stylus.  The fact that they all let you nest and use variables is pretty nice because
then you don't have to use change 10 things when all you want to do is adjust one color.  Also, that way of doing things really adds the missing logic component that most other programming languages teach.  That being said I think it in a way makes you a better coder know that.  
I tend to agree with the author of the first article called the problem with CSS pre-processors.  Mainly because i'm in the same boat he is, in that I learned from the begginning how to scale and maintain a large style sheet so I am pretty well set in my ways.  My first project was three different style sheets with thousands of lines of code that i didn't write. That forces you to innately start organizing it in a way that makes senses.  I also liked his comment about how it really depends on the project he is coding because lately I have been doing a lot of one off type micro sites that won't really need to be changed or updated in the near forseeable future.  
I can see the benefits of learning how the pre processesors work and will for sure get around to it for my own benfit and employment.  Plus i'm sure it will only make my css coding better.  I would of liked to learn a system like this from the get go so in that sense I would endorse it for new and begginer level people.  I would urge those with more experience to familiarize themselves with it.  But overall a lot of these practices should be habit but if a project seems like it is going to be daunting and hard to manage I would consider the SASS way of things.  Not to mention if you hand it off to another person to manage in the future if they know SASS there will be very little transition time learning how everything is setup.  
