---
layout:post
title: SMACCS Thoughts
---

##SMACCS Not The Cereal

The idea of having a consistent approach to developing on any level is a very useful thing to know or at least be aware of if you 
don't use it yourself.  The idea of Frameworks for developing is pretty cool I found upon reading it that I already do something
similar just not so consistently because usually a project requires playing things by ear.  The idea of a base is something I do 
as well as the layout rules they mentioned.  Something I like that they have are the naming conventions however I don't do that 
simply because I have a solid commenting habbit.  Another thing from the SMACCS read I liked was the way they stack declarations 
in the CSS(see code below) but most the layout rules were pretty straight forward as well as the module and state rules.

I like the SMACCS approach overall I think there is a lot for a new developer to learn.  I certainly wish I had something like
this when I started.  The only thing I would caution someone is that sometimes you are going to have to bend if not break the
rules.  A lot of the time I find myself having to come up with a new or different approach to a problem that normally has a
fixed answer.  Other than that I think it will be interesting to see how this thought process evovles with the way web design
does.

I think a lot of this is really something that takes time to get accustomed to using because it is so much more of a thought
process.  If that isn't something that you do then it can be difficult.  I know i've had to learn all of these lessons the hard
way.  I think the really nice and marketable thing about the SMACCS way of doing things is that if you work with other people 
there will not be as much confusion because just about anyone can pick up on your naming conventions.   



##This is what I was talking about for declarations layout

{% highlight css %}
#header, #article, #footer {
    width: 960px;
    margin: auto;
}
{% endhighlight %}
